.TH PO 1 "2 Mar 2017" "po-util" "Particle Offline Utility"
.SH NAME
.B po-util
\- The Ultimate Local Particle Experience for Linux and macOS
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B po
DEVICE_TYPE COMMAND DEVICE_NAME

.B po
DFU_COMMAND

.B po
install [full_install_path]

.B po
library LIBRARY_COMMAND
.SH DESCRIPTION
Particle Offline Utility, called po-util or po, is a tool for installing and using the Particle Toolchain on Linux and macOS. Local building, firmware uploading using dfu-util or particle-cli, and library management are key features.

.B po-util
supports the Photon, Electron, Core, P1, Raspberry Pi, and Redbear Duo.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B install
Download the tools needed for development. Requires sudo. You can also re-install with this command. You can optionally install to an alternate location by specifying [full_install_path].

Example:
.B  po
install ~/particle

By default, the Particle firmware is installed in ~/github.

.TP
.B build
Locally compile code in "firmware" subdirectory using gcc-arm.

.TP
.B flash
Compile code and flash to device using dfu-util.

NOTE: You can supply another argument to "build" and "flash" to specify which firmware directory to compile.

Example:

.B  po
photon flash photon-firmware/

.TP
.B clean
Refresh all code (Run after switching device or directory).

.TP
.B init
Initialize your current working directory as a po-util project.  You must specify which platform your project is for. You can supply another argument to specify to create a project folder. (Without this argument the current working directory is initialized as a project.) The purpose of the platform argument is to generate a ".atom-build.yml" file which provides keyboard shortcuts for using po-util within Atom. More information on the shortcuts is below.

Example:

.B  po
init photon somePhotonProject

.TP
.B update
Download the latest releases of Redbear Duo firmware, Particle firmware, particle-cli and po-util.  You may supply another argument to choose to only update only one firmware repository, using "firmware" for Particle, and "duo" for the Redbear Duo.

.TP
.B upgrade
Recompile and update the system firmware on a device.

.TP
.B ota
Upload code Over The Air using particle-cli.

NOTE: You can sequentially flash code to multiple devices by passing the -m or --multi argument to
.B ota

Example:

.B  po
photon ota -m product-firmware/

NOTE: This is different from the product firmware update feature in the Particle Console because it updates the firmware of devices one at a time and only if the devices are online when the command is run.

NOTE: Using -m or --multi depends on a
.B devices.txt
file inside of your project. The file must contain the names of your devices, one per line, and the devices must all be of the same type.

.TP
.B serial open

Put a device into listening mode.

You can specify a device with
.B -d

Example:

.B po
serial open -d /dev/cu.usbmodem1441


.TP
.B serial monitor
Monitor a device's serial output using
.B screen
(Close with CRTL-A +D)

.TP
.B config
Select Particle firmware branch and DFU trigger baud rate.

.TP
.B setup
Get a device's ID and connect it Wi-Fi. Manually claim it after.

.TP
.B ls, list
List devices on serial ports.

.TP
.B dfu
Flash pre-compiled code to your device.

Example:

.B  po photon
dfu


.TP
.B dfu open
Put a device into DFU mode.

You can specify a device with
.B -d

Example:

.B po
dfu open -d /dev/cu.usbmodem1441


.TP
.B dfu close
Get device out of DFU mode.

.TP
.B lib, library
Library manager command for po-util.

.SH LIBRARY MANAGER

.TP
.B po lib
The library manager makes it easy to use Particle libraries hosted on GitHub with your projects.  It does this by keeping the library repositories in
.B ~/.po-util/lib
and creating symbolic links to the relevant library files in your projects.  It keeps track of which libraries are used in a project in a
.B libs.txt
file in every project. More features which are listed below.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B get, install
Download a Particle Library with Git and optionally name it. If run with no arguments, libraries listed in "libs.txt" are installed.

Example of downloading a library from GitHub:

.B  po lib
get https://github.com/someUser/libraryName libraryName

.TP
.B add, import
Add a downloaded library to a po-util project. Libraries are added in the firmware directory as soft links. Additionally, the library information is added to "libs.txt" so that you can keep track of your libraries and restore them in the future.

Example adding an installed library to a project:

.B  po lib
add libraryName

.TP
.B rm, remove
Remove a library from a po-util project. Just the soft links are deleted.

Example:

.B  po lib
rm libraryName

.TP
.B create
Create other libraries from other C++ files in a library. Useful for when multiple libraries are packaged together and need to be separated.

Example:

.B  cd
~/.po-util/lib/someLibWithOtherLibsInside

.B  po lib
create

.TP
.B purge
Uninstall (delete) a library from ~/.po-util/lib

Example:

.B  po lib
purge someLibrary

.TP
.B ls, list
List all downloaded libraries. Libraries are kept in:

.B ~/.po-util/lib

.TP
.B src, source
List all downloaded libraries that are repositories and include their Git URL's.

.TP
.B setup
A combination of
.B po lib install
and
.B po lib add

Libraries listed in "libs.txt" are installed and symlinks are created.

.TP
.B clean
All symlinks in the project are removed, but "libs.txt" is untouched.  This is ideal for releasing you project, as there will be no linked libraries in the "firmware" directory, but rather a list that people can run "po lib setup" to download your project's dependencies.

.TP
.B pack, package, export
Copy your source code and linked libraries in "firmware" into a packaged directory inside of your project.  A tarball of the packaged directory is also created.  A useful method for sharing your project with users who do not have po-util.

NOTE:
If you are building for Raspberry Pi, Docker will not follow the symlinked files, and you will have to build the packaged directory instead.

.B po lib pack

.B po pi build <PROJECT>-packaged

.TP
.B update, refresh
Update your (git) libraries.

.TP
.B view-headers
View any dependencies included libraries may have.

.TP
.B ex, examples
Library example manager.  Can be used to list available examples for a library and load them into a project.

.SH LIBRARY EXAMPLE MANAGER

.TP
.B po lib ex
A work in progress.  The Library Example Manger allows you to find examples in a library and load them into your project for testing or modification.  Your original source code is backed up in the "main.cpp.YYYY-MM-DD-HH-mm.txt" format.  A "libs.txt" will be generated from the example upon loading.

.TP
.B ls, list
List all examples in a Library.

Example:

.B  po lib ex
ls libraryName

.TP
.B load
Load an example from a library into the current project. A "libs.txt" will be generated from the example upon loading.

Example:

.B po lib ex
load libraryName exampleName

.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS

The following shortcuts allow you to run common po-util commands quickly while using Atom. This requires the "build" package for Atom.  Get the package and a few other handy packages with:
.B po setup-atom

.TP
.B build
CTRL-ALT-1

.TP
.B flash
CTRL-ALT-2

.TP
.B clean
CTRL-ALT-3

.TP
.B dfu
CTRL-ALT-4

.TP
.B ota
CTRL-ALT-5

.SH AUTHOR
Nathan D. Robinson <nrobinson2000@me.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
po-util for Linux: <https://github.com/nrobinson2000/po-util>
.br
po-util for macOS: <https://github.com/nrobinson2000/homebrew-po>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2017 Nathan D. Robinson. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
Documentation available at: <https://docs.po-util.com>
.br
Gitter Community avaliable at: <https://gitter.im/po-util/Lobby>

.SH NOTES
To build locally for Raspberry Pi you must have Docker installed.

.SH CREDITS
Some elements were inspired by GPL projects and threads on the Particle Community and StackOverflow.

.fi
